Fredrik: Hello!
Sam: Hey? How's it going.
Fredrik: Yeah, good.
Fredrik: A bit of a birch allergy going on, but otherwise it's all good, and you.
Sam: I can't complain.
Sam: It's nice and cool today, which is nice.
Sam: Few minutes before we start, since people generally join a bit late.
Sam: Go ahead. Sorry.
Fredrik: Now I was just gonna say that I from my side. I kinda hope for some warmth. I think it's like 4 degrees
Fredrik: Celsius here, so not super warm.
Sam: That's chilly now. We were up to 27 a couple of days ago, and we're back down to 13, which I think is reasonable.
Anders Kristiansen: Figuring out shoes and jacket.
Sam: So let's say we start at 1 0 5, because I know you have to leave early.
Sam: All right. I think we have a good number of people here. Let's get started. So welcome to meeting number 33, we have 3 items on the agenda today. We have
Sam: an introduction to trillion dollar security, a kind of a retrospective discussion on 7,702, and then a discussion on calculation and standardizing base fees. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Frederick, and
Sam: we can talk about trillion dollar security.
Fredrik: Yeah, thanks a lot. So just to give some information about
Fredrik: what to worry about what I'm about to speak about. So the trillion dollar security initiative is
Fredrik: this idea that we have things within the ethereum ecosystem that are
Fredrik: that has room for improvements with regards to security. It can be anything. Really, it could be things related to the protocol. It can be wallet ux. It could be censoring
Fredrik: Rpc. Endpoints it could be concerns about privacy.
Fredrik: or you know the fact that a lot of people are falling victims to
Fredrik: various attacks and etc.
Fredrik: This
Fredrik: this is so so what we're trying to do is kind of collect information from the ecosystem about what areas
Fredrik: they feel need some type of improvement.
Fredrik: and when we have this
Fredrik: information, the idea is that we will
Fredrik: compile a report and then start working on executing these necessary changes in order to kind of improve the overall security of the ethereum ecosystem.
Fredrik: I guess, for this call.
Fredrik: We don't have to dive deep into the like specific security concerns or thoughts that people have. If you do have any.
Fredrik: I'm more than happy to speak about them on this call, but otherwise it would be
Fredrik: interesting to get your feedback in some way or another on how we can improve
Fredrik: the overall security of ethereum, you know, so we can hopefully on board billions of of users.
Fredrik: and we have a few ways of doing that. We have a form on a website on the blog@blog.org.
Fredrik: or you can also schedule
Fredrik: a short call with me, and we can discuss it one on one if you would be open to that
Fredrik: I'll post the links here in the chat.
Fredrik: If anyone do have any comments and want to discuss any.
Fredrik: or give any feedback or such at this point in this. In this call.
Fredrik: I think it would be very interesting to hear your views so feel free to provide feedback.
Sam: Sure. So I kind of have a question. So what are the roles of like the Ef going to be versus what you expect from, say, wallet developers or other ecosystem members.
Fredrik: Yeah. Okay, yeah. So the Ef is. In my view, the Ef is acting as a coordinator here. We're collecting the feedback from various parts of the ecosystem. I've talked to, or we have talked to a lot of different entities, such as you know, end users projects, developers, security people, various financial institutions staking operations
Fredrik: Vcs, etc, etc. Just to get this kind of overview of what's what people
Fredrik: are seeing as sort of the weak, weak points that we need to improve on.
Fredrik: Once we have done that like, I said, we are compiling this report of of this feedback in these findings.
Fredrik: and my view is then that you know the Ef. Continues to act as this kind of
Fredrik: coordinator to kind of provide feedback.
Fredrik: you know, from a wallet point of view we've here. We like some some of these comments that we heard is that
Fredrik: it's hard for a non technical user to understand what they're signing
Fredrik: and maybe, you know, part like
Fredrik: action point from this could be to
Fredrik: discuss with a lot of the wallet developers around.
Fredrik: How can we improve this?
Fredrik: Should there be, you know, some type of standard around how
Fredrik: wallets should ensure the security of the users or minimize the risks of the users, etc. I think that's that's the next kind of step to to figure this out. So it's not the idea. In my opinion. It's not that the Ef. Should be doing everything. It's more
Fredrik: like trying to help facilitate and provide necessary
Fredrik: resources that might be missing, for example, might be relevant with some grants or other aspects to to help improve this, this security.
Sam: Great. Thank you. And I guess what you're looking for from wallet developers is to to come on and fill out the form that you were talking about and schedule some time with you.
Fredrik: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah. So it would be super interesting to hear the the insights of the wallet developers. What?
Fredrik: What you perceive as the
Fredrik: the major security concerns. That the system is facing. You know, if you have any thoughts on how that can be improved, that's great, but otherwise, you know, feel free to just
Fredrik: let us know about the issues themselves. And then we can work together to try to find
Fredrik: potential solutions to these problems.
Sam: Awesome thanks so much. Does anybody else have any questions or comments?
Sam: Alright. So I guess that means we can move on to our next topic, which is talking about 7, 7 0, 2, and how it's been going so far.
Sam: how has it been going? I know some of you are from clients. Some of you are from wallets.
Sam: Yeah. If anybody has any insights things to talk about, please do.
Anders Kristiansen: It kind of sounds like no one has any. So
Anders Kristiansen: I kind of suggested it because I was interested in so client. If
Anders Kristiansen: There's some limitations that was done in the memory pool.
Anders Kristiansen: And actually, I was kind of interested in in how different wallet implementations was handling this.
Anders Kristiansen: or if they experienced any issues.
Anders Kristiansen: But if no one has any opinions, I guess
Anders Kristiansen: it's not much of an issue.
Sam: Sounds like this might be a question to post in the discord and collect some responses. Async.
Anders Kristiansen: Yeah, all right.
Sam: Go ahead, Nicholas!
Nicolas Consigny: Hey? I don't have like a direct feedback, because
Nicolas Consigny: don't run a wallet. But I would have a question for Metamask.
Nicolas Consigny: I think 7, 7 0, 2 is still like behind the developer
Nicolas Consigny: sites, and like not directly rolled out to like the entire user base.
Nicolas Consigny: Do you have any rough estimation or plans to share about like.
Nicolas Consigny: when would you roll this out to?
Nicolas Consigny: The greater user base
Nicolas Consigny: I have and is directly for you, I guess, because I guess you're the only Metamask people person here.
Vandan | MetaMask: Joel's here as well. I don't know.
Nicolas Consigny: Utah. Okay. Yeah.
Vandan | MetaMask: Let's see if he he's he's the more technical one. But
Nicolas Consigny: Okay.
Vandan | MetaMask: Woods. Okay?
Joao Tavares: I can answer. Sorry because you were asking about.
Joao Tavares: When are we rolling it out to all our users? Is that it.
Nicolas Consigny: Yeah, what is like the plan? I I think it's still behind the developer, setting.
Joao Tavares: So support for 7, 7 0, 2 should have should be rolled out for everyone.
Nicolas Consigny: Okay.
Joao Tavares: The.
Joao Tavares: The only thing is the 1st version that we've rolled out
Joao Tavares: like there was no way for a user to upgrade from within the wallet. So we're leveraging 5, 7, 9, 2
Joao Tavares: to perform
Joao Tavares: like an upgrade just in time. So when adapt, you know, wants to submit a batch transaction.
Joao Tavares: That's when the user will need to upgrade. So at that moment we prompted to use and say, You know, to proceed, please, you know, confirm that you are willing to upgrade your way to a sports contract account.
Joao Tavares: With, I think, the latest version that we've that we are rolling out.
Joao Tavares: It's it's already possible to upgrade from within the wallet like you can just go to your account details and upgrade from there and upgrade or downgrade either way.
Joao Tavares: Oh.
Nicolas Consigny: Alright. I'm I'm checking right now. Okay, thanks. Yeah. That's exactly what I was
Nicolas Consigny: asking for. It's like the force upgrade button within the wallet.
Joao Tavares: Yeah, that that is rolling out on the current release.
Nicolas Consigny: Oh, okay. Okay.
Sam: So Van did in the chat asked, is the question about whether we would do a mass migration.
Nicolas Consigny: No, no, no, like I I mean, you can't force people to.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Nicolas Consigny: Yeah.
Sam: Cool.
Nicolas Consigny: It's yeah.
Nicolas Consigny: But so then it's triggered currently on this.
Nicolas Consigny: Only if the dap requests so like.
Nicolas Consigny: are you expecting most people to like. Use that to trigger this for the 1st time, or like. Would you push this button to be the main
Nicolas Consigny: distribution arm of 7 sevens. Kind of like, what?
Nicolas Consigny: What do you expect? It.
Joao Tavares: So that that's that's hard to say. Like ideally, you know, we would
Joao Tavares: like there would be no reason to push a user to upgrade easy way, unless there's
Joao Tavares: a reason that will benefit the user at that moment. Right? And once that moment comes, that's probably when we'll prompt him and say, you know, to proceed, and from here onwards to get.
Joao Tavares: You know you are going through this flow, so probably you'll benefit from a
Joao Tavares: improved ux. Then, you know, please do upgrade. Now, the 1st use case was batch transactions via daps. But as we've rolled out more and more features on top, we'll probably prompt the user.
Joao Tavares: you know more and more times until it gets to a point where we just say, you know, it's better if you upgrade to get an overall improved experience. It's better to just upgrade straight away.
Joao Tavares: But yeah.
Nicolas Consigny: Okay. Sounds fair, great. Thank you.
Sam: Cool. So we're joined with by light client, or Matt who probably has a little bit more of an update on how 7 7 0, 2 is doing on Mainnet. So if you want to give us a little bit of an update that'd be
Sam: very appreciated.
lightclient: Hello.
lightclient: yeah. I mean, honestly, I think that most of the wallets probably have a good idea of how it's working out for them. I can really only see right now what Dune is able to tell me, and unfortunately, because Dune doesn't have a way for us to know what the
lightclient: addresses that authorize an account. We really only kind of know who or which wallet delegation contracts are getting delegated to right now.
lightclient: So I would like to have a better idea of what the total value locked is. I know there's like some
lightclient: metric for total value of Eth locked. I want to say it was a couple 1 million dollars of Eth. But that doesn't really tell you what the total value of the Erc 20 s. Are. It doesn't really tell you how many transactions these delegated accounts are using yet. So
lightclient: we're missing a lot of like the most important metrics. But overall, it seems that 7 7 0 2 adoption is coming up. I saw Metamask kind of overtook.
lightclient: Okay. X is the top delegated contract a couple days ago.
lightclient: and I think that total were a bit over 40,000 authorizations in 2 weeks. So I think overall things are are pretty good, especially considering that wallets are continuing to roll this out.
lightclient: But yeah, if anyone has those metrics, I would be curious what the Tvl, or I guess, asset under management of the contracts is so far.
Sam: Do you know roughly, what percentage of like new transactions are? To 7, 7 0, 2 accounts.
lightclient: Yeah, that's the thing. It's not really possible to determine this right now, via dune.
lightclient: Because if you
lightclient: you can't just look at the number of 7,702 transactions. Because that's only the beginning of the 7,702 story. You need to know which account signed the authorization, and because they don't have that recovered address in their database table, we can't then go look up to see how often that account is transacting after they make the authorization.
Sam: You can't count calls into the delegate target. I don't know how dune works.
lightclient: Yeah. Dude, unfortunately, in the trace, doesn't have a way to know. It doesn't expose that the 7 702 proxy has really occurred.
lightclient: I don't know. I also try. I tried to like look into doing something like looking through every call, and then pulling up the code related to that call, and seeing if there's a prefix of Ef related to it, and I ran into an issue. But I'm forgetting
lightclient: what the issue was now, but I could try and look into it again.
lightclient: Yeah, if anyone has a connection at dune that we could talk to, that would be great. I feel like this is a pretty easy thing for them to do.
lightclient: and I assume they're kind of aware of it, but it would be very helpful to get this sorted out in the next couple weeks.
lightclient: and I've talked to Kofi a little bit and and he's planning to have these stats in his in his website bundle bear.
lightclient: but as of now, it doesn't look like he has rolled any of that information on.
Sam: Cool. Well, thanks for the update man. We appreciate it.
Sam: And I guess on that note is smart programmer 93 here by any chance, because I know you wanted to talk about standardizing base fee
Sam: calculations.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Hey? Yes.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: So we've been looking into how wallets calculate base fees, and
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: also suggest priority fees for transactions for different chains.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: and we've been noticing that there is a lot of discrepancy between one wallet and another, and how they implement this. Some of them actually use the Rpc. Calls that they're supposed to use for example, or like they they directly call the Rpc. Endpoint. That for for each fee each get fee, and
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: that, even for the suggested fee, and
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: the other one, if I don't remember the exact name, let me try to get it.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Yeah. So.
Diptanshu Kakwani: Max priorities. You said 20.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Yeah, so there is that
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: if gas price there is eth fee history, and there is also,
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: if a Max priority fee per gas right? These 3 endpoints
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: supposedly, should be sufficient to suggest like fees for for for transactions.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Now, the reason I'm I'm asking about this is is. And and talking about this is that because there are multiple L twos calculating the the base fees for these l, 2 s.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Sometimes different depending on what the L 2 uses. If it's using blobs, if it's using.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: So the because the costs on the l 1 varies, it's not just about a congestion cost anymore. It's more
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: related to
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: directly injecting the costs of posting the blobs of of verification, proofs of these L 2 blocks on chain, etcetera. All of this counts in as part of the cost. Now, most of networks. What they do is that they
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: they sometimes tend to subsidize these costs, and that's fine. But
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: at at 1 point, when we're trying to work on on L. 2 l. Two's l. 2 transaction fees, we found ourselves in need to tell the wallet what the base fee and the priority fee should potentially be. Especially the base fee right? The priority fee will probably more be needed
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: for pre-confirmations in the future. But the base fee which will should basically cover part partially, some of the l. 1 posting and verification cost. It's a little bit tough, and some of the wallets actually call internal Apis public Apis that they have, like some and those Apis do some
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: unknown calculation on how to get the fees. So we noticed, for example, that in Metamask Metamask actually calls an internal Api
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: that that does that returns this data.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: rainbow actually calls an internal Api also. But then this internal ap we noticed that in rainbow. This internal Api then calls the Rpc. To get the data from it. So
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: if your Rpc. Is a local machine, it won't work. But if it's a public IP address, it will work because it's it is accessible. By the by, the like internal Api service that rainbow is calling for Rabi. That's not the case. Rabi, directly, for example, calls the Rpc. Endpoint and and gets the data from it. So my sorry for the long explanation. But
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: my, my idea here is that I want to discuss. Why is there no like standard for for how this is done? And how can we make it
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: become a standard and how we can reach a good implementation for this.
Sam: So I think this is definitely an important issue to raise.
Sam: I'm not sure if we're going to get much like synchronous feedback today, if somebody wants to talk, feel free to interrupt me. But it might be better to post like a summary in the Discord channel, and we can maybe start an Async discussion about it.
Sam: That tends to get a little bit more response.
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Sure we'll do that. Thank you.
Sam: Cool. Does anybody have anything else they want to talk about today? Otherwise we can wrap it up
Sam: great. Well, we'll see you all next month. Talk to you, then.